on this edition Sunday November
15 a manhunt is underway for a
suspect in the
Paris attacks as the city tries
to come to terms with tragedy
and fact-checking
last night's democratic debate
next on PBS Newshour weekend
edition WNET
studios at Lincoln Center in New
York william Browning I'm good
evening and
thanks for joining us
Srinivasan is on assignment in
paris and will join us in a
moment a manhunt is
underway in France for at least
one man suspected of direct
involvement in
Friday's terrorist attacks in
Paris is just contrary to
yesterday's initial
statements by French officials
all eight men who carried out
the attacks had been
killed so far
French officials and described
six attackers killing themselves
by
detonating suicide vests during
the attacks while saying French
police shot
one attacker a hundred and
twenty-nine people have died
from the attacks and 42
people remain hospitalized
in critical condition
French investigators have
located two cars they think the
gunman used in their
drive-by shootings of
restaurants and cafes and to get
to the musical with a
killed at least 89 people inside
one car officials say they found
three ak-47
machine guns like the weapons
used in the attacks French
officials also said
today three of the eight
attackers were French citizens
to living in Belgium and
the third a new Islamic
extremists who lived an hour
outside of Paris the
NewsHour universities in Paris
and joins me now so hurry what
do we know about
the suspect
good evening William what we do
know that this is a space that
is now
becoming famous all across
Europe this 26 year old it was
born in Brussels
French authorities have
distributed the photo of Saleh
obvious line with a
message if you see him do not
intervene yourself because
obviously is considered
dangerous authorities believe he
rented a car that gunmen used in
there Friday
night rampage it was seen
outside the budget plan concert
hall where the
series of attacks ended cell
phone video released today shows
when french police
moved in on the hall shooting
one of the gunmen while two
other gunmen wearing
suicide vests blew themselves up
French authorities say I'm the
slime is one of
three brothers believed
to be involved
in the terrorism conspiracy one
died in the attack another has
been arrested in
Belgium investigators here say
at least three of the suicide
bombers killed in
the parents attacks were French
citizens one has been identified
as a 29 year old
who grew up in the town of short
60 miles southwest of Paris me
smile most
of I had been flagged by French
officials for connections to
Islamic
radicalism yesterday French
officials detained his brother
father and other
relatives are questioning today
we learned a little more about
the Syrian
passport found with one of the
three suicide bombers blew
themselves up at
the French National Stadium with
the attacks began serbia says
the Syrian
passport was registered at its
border and tree with macedonia
on October 7th
Macedonia is next door to Greece
which has said the passport was
stamped upon
arrival on a Greek island on
October 3rd the route from Syria
to Greece has won
several hundred thousand Syrian
refugees have taken to Europe
this year
ran senator Joe el barrio
mainline sits on the foreign
affairs and defence
committee she told me that this
was a major failure of
intelligence services
become check everything to be
much more cat food and shaking
through I don't keep everything
if someone comes
true and felt that once we need
to work with other countries we
need to hug the
Registry's we need to check this
information with various
countries and
we got to meet extremely
well in not too late
terrorists definitely demand
usual you today security remains
tight around
parents with army soldiers still
on patrol crowds gathered near
the attack
site slaying flowers and candles
today historic Notre Dame
Cathedral in other
churches around the city held
special ceremonies for the
victims' sorry I
understand there been some
reports of false alarms near
where you've been can
you tell us what's been going on
with those this is a city that
is so tense
right now it's not uncommon to
see all these vehicles running
at top speed
through city streets and
incredible sense of urgency
earlier this afternoon
or register late this evening
there were scared that the main
plaza where so many
people had come to lay flowers
and pay their respects show
their solidarity
that plaza was evacuated there
was a suspicious activity at
least called in
there was also people that we're
getting scared near some of the
restaurants
where these visuals were both of
those turned out to be false
alarms but not
before hundreds of a couple of
thousand people from the central
plaza all took
off because they didn't know
whether there was another attack
house and
beyond that what is your sense
of what is the what is the mood
like what are
people saying to you about what
they'd like to see happen next
this is a city that's really in
the mix of both sadness and
anger you see some
of the signs that are actually
left up here on the one hand
there's no way for
Paris we're sorry for your loss
and then there's also a very
very strong and
hateful tone not just against
the terrorists but sometimes
very unpleasant
opinions against Muslims from
around the country around the
world so there's a
national conversation
that has to happen here
similar to the ones that
actually happening around the
memorials what
about this issue of the
connection between the refugees
and migrants that
have been coming into Europe and
the potential threat that this
might be a
vehicle for terrorists getting
into France are you hearing talk
about that
as well that's a conversation
that we had linked with a
senator but it's also
something that a lot more
average citizens are thinking
about on the one
hand they do want to do right by
the refugees they want to help
these people
in need
on the other hand they say
listen the absolute open border
policy of Germany
from a few months ago
might not be the solution
what is the in-between step
where the French citizens can
ensure some
semblance of their own security
at the same time help the people
that are on
their doorsteps alright
re thank you very much
news our special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant is also in Paris
and files this
report about a city trying to
come to terms with tragedy was
on and so few
dishes motor is trying but not
succeeding to suppress the
recurring
images of carnage wrapping
bandages from home she managed
to save lives
thanks to the emergency
battlefield medical techniques
she learned as a
television producer as soon as I
realized that stops because it
did it
did it too many times and then
it stopped and I thought I have
to help
those people there was an
absolute silence all around the
cafe the windows
were smashed people were lying
down dead blood everywhere and
I i dont know I got out of my
body my mind I I don't know what
I was thinking
but I just rushed there took my
stuff and just try to save the
ones that were
still moving and and and when I
think when people started to to
to be heard
and realized a pain they started
screaming and this was the
terrible part
because they were screaming at
me and and and trying to get my
attention to
get her international sympathy
for France's agony was expressed
explicitly
during services at Paris's
american cathedral the two
nations are
inextricably linked by this
attack because it was at the
concert by an
American band that most of the
victims were murdered teen
lucinda led appeal to
the congregation not to blame
all the followers of Islam for
Friday the 30
but it might be it keeps going
and I don't see and early end to
it
Christians have to do in
relations because there are some
people who would
like to foment trouble between
the people who are completely
correct to
stand for peace
have to stand for working
together with our Muslim
brothers and sisters have to
differentiate between good
religion and Bad Religion Bad
Religion that twists
what is good good religion
Christian Muslim do any religion
works for peace
justice and the humanity of all
people that's where Christians
need to be from
the other side of the religious
divide Summa Health rupee a
French Tunisian
campaigner for multi-faith
understanding issued a similar
pleas for peaceful
coexistence terrorist sent us a
letter they sent us a trap and
I'm afraid I'm
really concerned that we might
fall into this trap is trouble
division this trap
of
and hatred and and despite that
we could have between the French
people and if we
fall into the Civil War I'm
afraid of myself comfortable
life of my nephew and
mrs. I'm afraid of peach and one
person in this country and not
only about to
the Muslim community
Islamic state in Iraq and Syria
has claimed credit for Friday's
terrorist
attack in Paris and the French
government also blames the
Islamic
militant group peter neumann
studies in teachers terrorism
and radicalization at
King's College in London he
joins me now from there to
discuss the group and its
intentions Peter these latest
attacks sort of put to rest the
idea that Isis
was mostly concerned about
actions in the Middle East
what do you think that they are
trying to accomplish with these
most recent
attacks I think there are three
games here the first is
classical asymmetric
warfare you're hitting us we're
going to take revenge by hitting
you where to its
most namely at home the second
intention is really to polarize
into divide
European societies to create
that sense of Islam against the
west and to create
a lot of mess in the countries
that they oppose the third
intention that often
gets forgotten is also
internally I think the Islamic
state has been on the
defensive end its core territory
in Iraq and Syria and this kind
of attack I
think motivate supporters and
gives them again the feeling
that they are part of
the winning team and that's
really important so this is part
of their
strategy of of not just scaring
the West off from attacks
against them but trying
to recruit more
people to the cause
absolutely and I think it's
really important to understand
case of Isis
that it is important to
understand the ideology but it's
also important for a
lot of Western recruits the
sense that they are part of
winning team that this
is a successful ever expanding
project that's how it seemed
last year and it
hasn't seemed like that for a
number of months and this kind
of attack is almost
diverting attention from some of
the problems that Isis is
happening in Iraq
and Syria and for that reason it
is very important for ice is to
have a us-
officials in the past have been
saying that their fight against
racist might
take some patients in
might take some time
opinion is this a fight that can
be hastened I think it's very
dangerous to
try to hasten it
too much I think
contrary to what everyone says
the campaign that has been going
on in Iraq
and Syria has not been
altogether unsuccessful it has
contained the
Islamic state it has taken away
the notion of it as a successful
organization in its core Tier
tree and if you want to hasten
it of course
America can basically bomb the
whole place but the question
then becomes what
happens the day after that you
have to bring ice is down in a
way that it
actually implodes that's the
only way in which you can have a
sustainable end to
Isis there's obviously been a
connection made in the last few
days between the
refugees coming into Europe and
these attacks and obviously
we're torn between
a humanitarian disaster going on
that is sending all these people
into Europe and
then fears now people very real
fears of a more attacks
happening how do you see
that tension playing out it's
incredibly dangerous the
important thing to
remember about terrorism is it
is always about not only about
killing people it's
also about creating a political
effect if the political effect
of these attacks
is that in the medium term
European societies are becoming
more polarized at
the far right which is already
strong a lot of countries is
trying to capitalize
on that is trying to merge the
refugee issue with the terrorism
is to you
the effect on european societies
could be terrible they could
even question the
idea that people of different
faiths ethnicities can live
peacefully together
in Europe so I do think we are
at a fragile moment here in
Europe and we
have to be really careful or I
peter neumann of King's College
London thank
you so much for being
here thank you
the terror attacks in Paris were
front center last night in Iowa
with the three
candidates for the Democratic
Party's 2016 presidential
nomination held their
second debate
the debate begin with a moment
of silence for the victims of
Friday
night's terrorist attacks in
Paris when the candidates
started talking
the group that carried out the
attacks was topic number one and
Isis make no
mistake about it is
an evil in this world
it cannot be contained it must
be defeated Vermont senator
Bernie Sanders
blamed supporters of the 2003
us-led invasion of Iraq
including then New York
Senator Hillary Clinton for the
instability that followed inside
iraq I
would argue that the disastrous
invasion of Iraq something that
I strongly oppose
has unraveled the region
completely and led to the rise
of al-qaida and 2 Isis
former Maryland Governor Martin
O'Malley criticized clinton's
handling of the
Middle East when she was
President Obama's Secretary of
State Libya is now
a mass syria is a mess
iraq is a mess afghanistan is a
mess we need to be much more for
thinking in
this new twenty-first century
era of of spacious state
failures and conflict
it's not just about getting rid
of this single dictator clinton
defended the
administration's decision to
participate in the European led
coalition that
deposed former Libyan president
Moammar Kadafi four years ago
saying Libyans
have since elected moderate
leaders now there has been a lot
of turmoil and
trouble as they have tried to
deal with these radical elements
which you find in
this arc of instability from
North Africa to Afghanistan and
domestic
policies as rivals disagreed
with her on how high the federal
minimum wage should
go it is not a radical idea to
say that if somebody works 40
hours a week that
person should not be living in
poverty Sanders and O'Malley
support $15 an hour
clinton supports 12 joining me
now from washington to fact
check some of last
night's debate as she has before
on the news hour is Angie Harmon
from
PolitiFact dot org
let's start with the assertion
by Vermont senator Bernie
Sanders about
today's income tax rates
compared to where they were back
in the fifties he
was asked how high he would
raise the top rate and here's
what Center said we
have to come up with an exact
number yet but will not be as
high
as the number under dwight D
eisenhower which was ninety
percent but much of the
socialist compared to high
school seniors got a lot of last
for that but
I'm how did that fact check out
ninety percent tax rate under
eisenhower is
that right that is right we
rated it true now there are few
things to be said
about this first off we're
talking about marginal income
tax rates so this is the
tax rate that you a person's
last dollar of income is taxed
at during the
eisenhower
days the tax rates were not high
92% and it was on people who
made quite a bit of
money in that time when we
adjusted for inflation we're
talking about people
being taxed at over 1.7 million
dollars of income so if you
compare that to
people earning equivalent amount
today what would what kind of
numbers are we
talking about for today's today
the top tax bracket is about
thirty nine point
six and four individuals it's
people who make just over four
hundred and thirteen
thousand dollars so it's a
little bit different than today
as they were higher
then ok so true for senator
Sanders there let's listen next
to him something
former Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton said about
stagnant american
wages I have made very clear
that hard-working middle-class
families need
a raise
not a tax increase in fact wages
adjusted for inflation haven't
risen
since the turn of the last
century you and your colleagues
rated this as only
half true why is that right well
literally when we looked at the
government statistics she wasn't
quite right the median weekly
wages now about
three hundred and forty dollars
a week back in 1999 there were
three hundred
and fifteen dollars a week so
there's been a slight increase
however we didn't
say she's completely wrong
because this is a real trend of
wages stagnating
since the nineteen seventies she
would have been better off if
she'd widened
her time frame a little bit and
the other thing is the increase
that we've
seen since 1999 is very small so
we gave her a half true on this
so stagnant
maybe not the best
adjectives to be using for this
yet barely budged or maybe a
very small
increase it was a small increase
and there's a real problem with
wage
stagnation over many decades ok
great so finally former governor
of Maryland
martin O'Malley he takes a shot
at Donald Trump and then he
dared
journalists to come out and
check one of his statements
about Mexican immigration
let's listen to what he said the
fact of the matter is and let's
say it in our
debate because you'll never hear
this from that immigrant bashing
carnival
barker donald trump the truth of
the matter is the truth of the
matter is
that immigration from Mexico
last year was he wrote back
check me go ahead
check it out
ok he did you net immigration
last year from Mexico was zero
that true berated
it mostly true now there is
uncertainty when he says net
immigration what we're
talking about are the people who
came from Mexico minus all the
people who
left the United States its
arrivals minus departures now we
don't have a
direct measure of this we have
some indirect measures that kind
of tell us
where the situation might be and
mostly thats by estimating the
population of
people in the United States who
were born in Mexico now that
number has been
flat for many years there was a
tiny uptick last year but it's
not clear that
that means that that overall
trend has has stopped at very
low numbers of
immigration basically it's it's
kind of staying flat when you do
that arrivals
vs departures so we said he was
mostly true experts we spoke
with said yes
immigration is just for mexico
is staying flat but again
there's some
uncertainty it's complicated how
they measure it alright in Gijon
from
PolitiFact thank you very
much thanks for having me
President Barack Obama says the
terrorist attacks in Paris an
attack on
the civilized world and he's
pledging to help france track
down everyone
responsible Obama spoke today at
a summit in turkey with other
leaders of
the world's 20 biggest economies
the so-called g20 well the USS
pressing for
a political solution to end the
four and a half year civil war
in Syria with a
militant group Isis holds
territory Obama said the USA
would intensify the
military campaign against Isis
known in Arabic as Danish we
will redouble our
efforts working with other
members of the coalition to
bring about a peaceful
transition in Syria and to
eliminate dash as a force that
can create so much
pain and suffering the g20 is
expected to pledge financial
support to help
Turkey and Europe handle the
flow of nearly a million
migrants and refugees
from the Middle East and Africa
who are seeking asylum in Europe
this year the
site of one of the earliest Asus
atrocities inside iraq is it
coming into
Clearview Kurdish forces have
uncovered two mass graves in the
town of Sinjar
and ethnic hughes et village my
sister took last year the first
grade contain
the bodies of 78 elderly women
the second half the bodies of
more than
fifty men women and children I
just held senior for more than
15 months until
Kurdish forces in UCD forces
recaptured the town Friday in
Myanmar with most of
the votes now counted the party
led by Nobel Peace Prize winner
Aung Sun suit
she has won a landslide her
National League for Democracy
has captured 78% of
the parliamentary seats up for
grabs in last sunday's voting
this paves the way
for her party to form a
government and choose the
country's next president
Myanmar's current president and
former military commander is
promising a quote
smooth transition as his party
wins over power this was
Myanmar's first free
nationwide election in 25 years
and here in the USS Baltimore
has recorded its
300th homicide of the year there
was a fatal shooting in a fatal
stabbing
yesterday bringing the total to
three hundred and one there were
two hundred
and eleven homicides in
Baltimore last year the city has
not recorded more than
three hundred murders
in one year since 1999
it has the second worst murder
rate per capita after st. Louis
see images from
France's second day of national
mourning visit us online at
pbs.org / newshour
returning to our top story
france has begun its
counterattack on Isis the
Defense Ministry said tonight
that ten French warplanes
heavily bombed a training camp
in a munitions depot in
the northern Syrian city of
Rocca and Isis stronghold inside
Syria and the
associated press is reporting
that after the paris attacks
french police questioned and
then released one of the
suspects there now
looking for the AP says Saleh
Aslam was one of three men in a
car stopped early
Saturday morning near France's
border with Belgium but there's
no word on why
police let him go and in
solidarity with France flags at
the you s capital are
flying at half-staff at the
request of house speaker Paul
Ryan the news hour
we'll have reports from paris
throughout the week that's all
for this edition of
the PBS Newshour weekend I'm
leaving bring them thanks for
watching
goodnight